.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ipacconf.5
.\"
.TH IPACCONF 5 "September 2007" "I-PAC Tools" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ipacconf \- A config file for programming an I-PAC using ipacutil
.SH SECTIONS
A config file for ipacutil is composed of several sections that tell
ipacutil how to program an I-PAC.  Each section starts with an identifier
enclosed in braces and ends with a period (.) at the start of a line.  
Every other line within a section is either a variable definition or
a comment.  Comment lines start with a hash (#) character in column 1.
A variable definition is always only 1 line and composed of variable name,
value and a variable comment, making up 3 columns, each separated by
a tab (actually, any whitespace will work).
See the example file at the end of this document for more information.
.P
The currently defined sections are:
.P
.B Misc
.P
This section currently should contain the variable ShiftCode and BoardType.
In the MAME configuration, ShiftCode is defined as 0x12.  To disable
shifted operation, use 0xFF.  To change an I-PAC so it responds as
board 2, use 0xFE as the shift code. BoardTypes are: ipac2 - 0, ipac4 - 1, ipacve - 2, minipacve - 3

.P 
.B Unshifted
.P
The unshifted section contains a list of input descriptions.
Column 1 is the keynumber, starting with 1 (to X, board dependent).  Column
2 is the scan code that the I-PAC will send when that input is detected.
The 3rd column is a comment that must start with ";" and should contain
the the label of the input as seen on the I-PAC board.  This last column
is entirely for the user -- ipacutil doesn't care about it.  It should 
always be included to make the config file easier to read.
.B 

.P
.B Shifted
.P
The shifted section is very similar to unshifted section, but should
contain the scan codes sent when the shift button is pressed (as defined
by ShiftCode in the Misc section).  

.SH "EXAMPLE CONFIG FILE"
#There should be (at least) 3 sections in this file - Misc/Unshifted/Shifted
.P
#Each section ends with a . and starts with [xxxx]
.P
#Each section contains 1 or more variable settings
.P
#Format is:
.P
#variable	value	;comment
.P
#Where each column is separated by a tab
.P
.P
#The Misc section should contain two entries: ShiftCode and BoardType
.P
#This is the I-PAC input connection used for the shift button
.P
#In the MAME setting, the shift button is: 0x10
.P
#Valid values are: 0x01 - 0x1C
.P
#FF indicates no shift code
.P
#The shift code corresponds to the I-PAC input pin.
.P
#You can determine this by using the 1st column in the
.P
#unshifted section, below.  For example, the default is 
.P
#0x12, which is decimal 18.  Looking at line 18 in the unshifted section,
.P
#you can see that it corresponds to Start 1
.P
[Misc]
.P
ShiftCode	0x12	;1P Start
.P
\.
.P

#I-PAC2 example:
#First column is I-PAC input pin
#Second column is keycode to send
#Third column is input name - key name being sent
[Unshifted]
1	0xF5	;1 Up - up arrow
2	0xF4	;1 Right - right arrow
3	0x14	;1 Bt 1 - L-Ctrl
4	0xEB	;1 Left - Left arrow
5	0x29	;1 Bt 3 - space
6	0xF2	;1 Down - down arrow
7	0x1A	;1 Bt 5 - z
8	0x11	;1 Bt 2 - alt
9	0x34	;2 Right - g
10	0x12	;1 Bt 4 - Left shift
11	0x23	;2 Left - d
12	0x22	;1 Bt 6 - x
13	0x2D	;2 Up - r
14	0x2B	;2 Down - f
15	0x1C	;2 Bt 1 - a
16	0x16	;Start 1 - 1
17	0x1B	;2 Bt 2 - s
18	0x1E	;Start 2 - 2
19	0x15	;2 Bt 3 - q
20	0x2E	;Coin 1 - 5
21	0x1D	;2 Bt 4 - w
22	0x36	;Coin 2 - 6
23	0x43	;2 Bt 5 - i
24	0x21	;1 Bt 7 - c
25	0x42	;2 Bt 6 - k
26	0x2A	;1 Bt 8 - v
27	0x3B	;2 Bt 7 - j
28	0x4B	;2 Bt 8 - l
\.

[Shifted]
1	0x0E	;1 Up - ~ (Tilde)
2	0x0D	;1 Right - TAB
3	0x2E	;1 Bt 1 - 5
4	0x5A	;1 Left - Enter
5	0x00	;1 Bt 3
6	0x4D	;1 Down - p
7	0x00	;1 Bt 5
8	0x00	;1 Bt 2
9	0x00	;2 Right
10	0x00	;1 Bt 4
11	0x00	;2 Left
12	0x00	;1 Bt 6
13	0x00	;2 Up
14	0x00	;2 Down
15	0x00	;2 Bt 1
16	0x16	;Start 1
17	0x00	;2 Bt 2
18	0x76	;Start 2 - ESC
19	0x00	;2 Bt 3
20	0x00	;Coin 1
21	0x00	;2 Bt 4
22	0x00	;Coin 2
23	0x00	;2 Bt 5
24	0x00	;1 Bt 7
25	0x00	;2 Bt 6
26	0x00	;1 Bt 8
27	0x00	;2 Bt 7
28	0x35	;2 Bt 8 - y for prog
\.
.DE
.SH AUTHOR
Travis Veldkamp <tlvmail at bigfoot dot com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 Travis Veldkamp
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipacutil(1)
