.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ipacutil.8
.\"
.TH IPACUTIL 8 "September 2007" "I-PAC Tools" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ipacutil \- I-PAC keyboard encoder configuration utility (USB only)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipacutil [-h] [--help] [-v] [--verbose] [-q] [--quiet] [-d] [--detect] [-n] [--no_program] [-r] [-reset] [-a] [--ram] [-b 
.I board_num
.B ] [--board 
.I board_num
.B ] [-c 
.I config_file
.B ] [--config 
.I config_file
.B ] [-w 
.I config_file
.B ] [--write_cfg 
.I config_file
.B ] [-t 
.I type
.B ] [--type 
.I type
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipacutil
programs I-PAC keyboard encoders attached to the system.  
.IP "-h, --help"
Print program usage help
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Turn on verbose mode
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Turn on quiet mode (only print errors)
.IP "-d, --detect"
Attempt to detect connected I-PACs
.IP "-r, --reset"
Reset programming to factory default
.IP "-a, --ram"
Program to RAM only, not saved across power cycle
.IP "-n, --no_program"
Don't program the I-PAC.  This isn't really useful any longer and will probably be removed soon
.IP "-b board-num, --board board-num"
Used when more than 1 I-PAC is connected via USB.  Use -d/--detect to determine board number
.IP "-c config-file,  --cfg config-file"
Use the specified config file to program the I-PAC.  See also 
.IP "-w config-file, --write_cfg config-file"
Write a default config file to the specified file.  The defaults 
correspond to the function when the MAME jumper is on. See also 
.IP "-t board_type, --type board_type"
Used with -w/--write_cfg to generate the correct type of config file.  
Options are: ipac2, ipac4, ipacve, minipacve
.B ipacconf(5)
.SH BUGS
Currently only works with USB I-PACs.  PS/2 is not supported yet.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "To detect connected I-PACs, try:"
ipacutil --detect 
.SH AUTHOR
Travis Veldkamp <tlvmail at bigfoot dot com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 Travis Veldkamp
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipacconf(5)
